# A shift in Thinking

### Before we get into this, I'll tell you that despite the big title (which is actually kind of clickbaity), I must disappoint you, this article is actually just another one of those articles on a familiar subject, not very well researched or written at all to be honest. The subject is one that I've been thinking a lot about in the last while and is very dear to me. This article is about work culture in our society, the future of work and automation. This is (mostly) a personal opininon on the matter.

##### Hi. I'm here to tell you that you're gonna lose your job. Maybe not today, tomorrow or in the next 1-5 years, but probably in the next few decades. You might also be thinking that you'll be safe if you're a white collar worker, but no, that's bs. You'll lose your job and there'll be no more work for you (Unless you're part of some 20% of people or so who might for the time being be cheaper to keep than to automate away). Automation will come, it's not a matter of  if, but of when. And it'll fuck all over our social structures and work culture. And that's a good thing.

##### "Wait, what? Why is it a good thing to not have a job?", you might ask. Well, obviously it's a good thing to not have to do something, isn't it? Who ever complained about having too little to do? Isn't it usually the other way round, we get stressed, ill, burned out because we have too much to do, not only in terms of having to put a large chunk of our lifetimes into our work, but nowadays increasingly because we have too much on our mind, too many problems to solve at the same time and too little time, deadlines that are too close for comfort, deliverables we should have finished yesterday.

##### No. Not having to work is innherently a good thing. Our problem (emphasis on _our_ problem, our problem as a society), is that we don't have money, freedom, social recognition when we don't have a job. This kind of thinking might work out if you're planning to retire or migrate to a developing country in the next few years, but mid-term, if we continue to think that way, if we continue to build our society that way, then we're fucked.

##### If you don't believe me yet, have a watch of this video and then come back: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Pq-S557XQU

##### And if you still don't believe me, read this and come back: https://leveret-pale.de/kuenstliche-intelligenz-das-ende-des-kapitalismus (sorry, it's in german, but plug it through deepl.com if you want to read it and don't understand german)

##### "But what if we could stop automation, protect our free market?" Ha, ha. I'm sorry that I'm laughing, I can understand why you would have this thought, but the idea does rather strike me as ridiculous, to be frank. As a friend of mine said, there's no way to halt progress. Even if you're China, and take rather extreme measures to control the spread of information, it's impossible to control every individual, every subgroup of your society. And there's inevitably going to be people who don't share your ideas and who are smarter than you allow them to be. People who will defy you and do what you don't want them to behind your back. And spread ideas that you're desperately trying to contain. There's absolutely nothing. _nothing._ That you can do about that.

#### The solution to this issue, the issue of automation and the future of our society, is hardly a technical one, it's a social one. Or rather, the social one has priority - don't worry about automation for now, it will come (It would be cool if we started to embrace it rather than trying to delay it). What's more important right now is the solution to the social issue of "no work = no life". It starts with a shift in thinking, it starts with me, with you, with the people you know and with a lot of people that are feeling even more of the effects of the ridiculousness that is our labor market. And I hope that you've followed  up to now and haven't labeled me as a hippie, fanatic or something, and that you haven't dismissed this as the ramblings of a maniac out of touch with reality. If you haven't, I implore you to take action right now - find out where you can change things. For example, in germany, there's https://sanktionsfrei.de , an organisation fighting the injustice in Hartz 4 (basically our unemployment insurance system), who are also doing the first trial of Universal Basic income in germany (UBI is another can of worms we won't get into now btw). There's also so called Eco-villages and communes in germany, which share stuff (money, food etc) and grow their own food (c.f. https://reset.org/knowledge/ganz-schoen-anders-oekodoerfer-und-kommunen or https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsLMDeFKu-U). Or if you live in another place, google for "universal basic income $YOUR_COUNTRY_GOES_HERE" (without quote marks) or "social change $YOUR_COUNTRY". Another thing I've found why googling is https://idealist.org , might wanna take a look at that too.

## All the best to thee, reader, and to your community and to the people in the world too :p

# Cheers,
# Rian
